Chicken tikka masala. It's not actually an Indian dish, believe it or not. Well, chicken tikka is an Indian dish, but chicken tikka masala, so in a tomato gravy, was actually, invented in Glasgow of all places. It's now the national dish of the United Kingdom for good reason. It's super tasty. Now there's a few steps involved. There's 2 marination processes and then a gravy, but it's really worth to take the time and make this from scratch one day for your friends and family. So let's get stuck in. 1st up, let's marinade some chicken. I like to use chicken thighs for this recipe. And the reason being is because they've got a bit more fat and more flavor. If you want to, you can use chicken breast, but 5 5 is worth better. So we're gonna skewer this chicken and cook it, either over charcoal or on a barbecue or even in the oven. So we're gonna trim our chicken thighs up, and you want pieces around that size that when we skewer are all kind of of similar size. I don't stress too much about the fat. I like to leave it on there as I think it, you end up with a more moist product. That's saying if you do see bits of, like, excess hard fat, you probably can trim that off. So the first marination. Now one thing you'll see a lot in Indian cooking is, the requirement for what they call ginger garlic paste. And that's effectively equal parts minced ginger and garlic. And most Indian households will just have the stuff on on plus or in the fridge at all times. So we need this in 3 points in this recipe. We're gonna make a decent batch for now that'll last us the whole recipe. So ginger, garlic in a food processor. Just a little dash of water to help processed. Process. Now you're not looking for, like, super smooth. You just want, you know, like, a a a coarsest is paste, not coarse, medium coarse paste. There you go. It's gonna save you mashing and grating a whole bunch of ginger and garlic over and over again. And if you got some leftover, just chuck it in the fridge, it'll last for a few days. No problem. The first marination is really simple. Ginger garlic, salt, Kashmiri chili powder, and the juice of half a lemon. Gonna give us a nice mix, and then we'll let that set aside for half an hour just for all those flavors to get to know each other and the salt to start brining the chicken effectively. Smells delicious already. Doesn't it, Des? Just let that hang out at room temp. For the 2nd marinade, we need to use some mustard seed oil, and we're gonna wanna temper it. So we just bring it up to a point where it starts to smoke, and then we'll let it cool down before we add the rest of our ingredients. Mustard seed oil has a pretty pungent smell as far as oils are concerned, and it's this really bright golden color. Almost looks like saffron infused saffron water or something. Now to be perfectly honest, I have no idea why you heat mustard oil to smoking point and cool it down. But in every recipe and every Indian cook I've seen use it, they've done this. So if anyone knows, let me know in the comments why this is a practice that's always done. So you can see here it's just starting to smoke, and now we know it's ready to go. So we're gonna pour that into our marination bowl. Start folding the rest of the marinade. We're gonna add some more Kashmiri chili powder, turmeric, garam masala, ground cumin, salt, ginger garlic. Give that a whisk. Kasoori methi. I like to break this up a little bit. Just rub it between your hands. I love the smell of the stuff. It has a really authentic, Indian cuisine smell in my opinion, and some yogurt. Whisk that all around, and that's our 2nd marinade. So the original marinade hang out for half an hour now. Now we're gonna add our 2nd marinade, and just fold it through. Now at this point, you can leave this 3 hours, 6 hours overnight if you wanted to. But you need to leave it for at least an hour in the fridge. And we're about an hour and a half later. Ideally, I do really like to keep this marinading for longer, but Mitchell gets angry. Anyway, so like I said, a couple of ways to this, you can just lay this onto a tray in 1 even layer and cook it into a really hot oven or a pizza oven if you've got it or anything like that. What you're looking for, you know, you don't need to cook this all the way through, but you do want some char on the outside. So the way that I'm doing it is my preferred method, which I've got a I've got my barbecue cranked up outside with charcoal, and I'll cook it over that because you get really nice char. But, But, yeah, like I was saying, you can also put another in at 250 degrees for, you know, 8 to 10 minutes till you get some nice char. But you don't need it. You don't need to cook it all the way through because we are gonna finish cooking it in the gravy that we're about to make. But I like to secure it up like this. And, again, we're not we're not serving these on these secures, so it doesn't need to look absolutely perfect. Now I ate a lot of Indian cuisine while I lived in London. There's a lot of huge Indian community, and I and I had a lot of Indian friends there. And in my last years, I lived at in East London, which was kind of, you know, where Brookline is and, you know, it's a big Indian community, and I lived above in an Indian restaurant. Nice to go to this restaurant all the time with my mate, Sammy sweetheart and logy beer. And we'd get a mixed grill and chicken tikka. And I have very fond memories. And it was really affordable and super delicious. And I'm pretty sure it was BYL as well, so we could we could bring our own cans of whatever and Yeah. That's so good. No. They'd love me in there. Now it it can be quite spicy if you want it to be this recipe, but it can also if you don't want it to be super spicy, if you're a bit allergic to spice like Des or Mitch, you can just, just turn it down with on the spices, but you will lose a bit of that really beautiful red color from the Kashmiri chili powder. But me and Caitlin, we like it spicy. So these guys will have to deal with it today. Alright. I'll go wash my hands, and then we'll head out to the barbecue. Now I don't have a tandoor at home like most people, so I think this is the 2nd best option. One of these kettle style charcoal grills work really well. I like to hang the skewers across the middle. And that way, you get good color on the outside, and the meat doesn't stick to the grate. You can also just do this on a normal char grilled barbecue, gas, charcoal, electric, whatever you've got. If all else fails, then just crank your oven to 250 on a tray and pop them in there for 10 to 12 minutes until you start getting some nice color. As soon as you see these get good color on the outside, pull them off. But like I said before, you don't need to stress to make sure those are cooked through because you're gonna finish cooking them in the gravy anyway. Now let's be honest, these small round skewers kind of suck because when you try and flip the chicken, it just rolls around in a circle. So if you can get the flat ones, they're much better to get more even color when you flip it on the skewer. So chicken's done. Oh, my cookbook. If you didn't know, I wrote a cookbook. The link's in the bio. Go order it now. We'll leave this to one side, and we'll start making our gravy. So turn your pot into a medium low heat and get some ghee in there. To the ghee, we're gonna add green cardamom, some Cuban seeds, some bay leaf. Just gonna infuse that ghee with those spices. Couple of red onions. Just gonna slice those nice and fine. They are gonna get blended, so don't stress too much. But you do want them to cook evenly. Pinch of salt. While those onions are softening up, just gonna dice up 4 tomatoes, a green chili, and some washed coriander stalks. Alright. Our onions are nicely softened, and we're just starting to develop bit of flavor or a bit of color, I should say, a bit of flavor also. We're really bringing the sweetness out of those onions. So to that, we're gonna add ginger garlic, chili powder, little bit of turmeric, garam masala, some cashews, gosore methi. Stir that around. Now we'll add our tomato, coriander, and chili, another pinch of salt, and some water. So we're just going to let this simmer for about 20 minutes to see everything softens up, And then we'll blend it, and we'll add our cooked chicken. Alright. It's been simmering for 30 minutes almost now. I'm gonna pull out the bay leaf. This and if you do see the green cardamom, I'd pull those out too, but I wouldn't stress too much if you don't find them all. And tomatoes are all nice and tender. Once I find this last bay leaf, we can blend it if I find this last bay leaf. Did you have the 2? No. It was 3. Oh, well, guess that's the hang in there. Alright. To blend it. Now you can just use a stick blender or you can use whatever you want really, food processor, says standing blender. I like these because you don't have to take it out of the pot. But we'll get it till it's nice and smooth. Alright. Now we've got our gravy sufficiently smooth. And in all honesty, if you do use a standing mixer, like a proper blender, you will get a much, gravy. But I think it's a bit safer to use one of those. And we've actually got a start. I don't have a big blender. So time to give a a last little season before we add our chicken back in. Give it a taste. Woah. It tastes pretty good. It needs a little pinch of salt. It needs a little bit of honey. Oh, I'm just gonna start splitting. Just a little bit of sweetness there. And then to get it silky smooth, we're gonna add major flex, some homemade butter in there and a little dash of cream. Alright. Wanna emulsify those in there. So you kinda don't want any heat on this. Otherwise, you might split some of that. It's no big deal if you don't. Once it's emulsified, you can turn the heat back gone nice and well. But it's time to add the delicious chicken back. Here comes our chicken, and that goes. Then just a nice low heat, stir that through. All those delicious flavors marry out together. Little taste of the gravy. Oh, yum. Couldn't get in my belly fast enough. Daz is so disappointed. Alright. Time to play. Put a naam, some rice. Just gonna finish this curry right then with a little bit more kasore methi. Now this is all about that gravy for me. And then, of course, a little bit of coriander to tie it all together. And there we go. Chicken tikka masala. Guess we better have a taste. Yum. The the thing is that I know there's a lot of steps in this recipe, but there's a reason there's a lot of steps. And That's because it just layers up flavor, and it's definitely worth taking the time to do it. That is so much better than any packer pork, chicken tikka masala or any base sauce. I hope you've enjoyed this video as much as I've enjoyed making it for you. Like this video if you're taking anything from it. Subscribe if you're not, and we'll see you next week for another recipe.